.TH SHIPSC 1 "July 2025" "SHIPS2-Go 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shipsc \- SHIPS2-Go client for password escrow and BitLocker key management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shipsc
.I COMMAND
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ARGUMENTS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shipsc
is the command-line client for the SHIPS2-Go password escrow service. It provides secure password rotation and BitLocker recovery key management for Windows workstations in workgroup environments.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B fetch HOSTNAME
Retrieve the current Administrator password for the specified hostname.
.TP
.B rotate HOSTNAME [PASSWORD] [\-actor NAME]
Rotate the Administrator password for the specified hostname. If PASSWORD is not provided, a secure password will be generated automatically. The optional \-actor flag specifies who performed the rotation.
.TP
.B bde HOSTNAME
Retrieve the BitLocker recovery key for the specified hostname.
.TP
.B update-key HOSTNAME KEY [\-actor NAME]
Store or update the BitLocker recovery key for the specified hostname. The optional \-actor flag specifies who provided the key.
.TP
.B version
Display the version information.
.TP
.B help
Display help information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-actor NAME
Specify the actor (person or system) performing the action. This is recorded in audit logs for accountability.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHIPS_SERVER
Base URL of the SHIPS2-Go server. Defaults to http://localhost:8080.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Fetch a password:
.B shipsc fetch WINBOX01
.TP
Rotate a password with automatic generation:
.B shipsc rotate WINBOX01 \-actor admin
.TP
Rotate a password with specific value:
.B shipsc rotate WINBOX01 NewSecurePass123! \-actor admin
.TP
Retrieve BitLocker key:
.B shipsc bde WINBOX01
.TP
Update BitLocker key:
.B shipsc update-key WINBOX01 123456-123456-123456-123456-123456-123456-123456-123456 \-actor admin
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/ships/bin/shipsc
The shipsc binary (Linux)
.TP
.I C:\\Program Files\\Ships\\shipsc.exe
The shipsc binary (Windows)
.SH SECURITY
All operations are logged and audited. The client communicates with the server over HTTP, but the server typically binds only to localhost (127.0.0.1) for security. External access is provided through SSH with restricted commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B ships-server(8), ssh(1)
.SH AUTHOR
SHIPS2-Go Project
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/jottavia/ships-go/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 Joseph V. Ottaviano. This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
